The phrase "Computer Science students" refers to students enrolled in any Honours plan offered through the David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science. Software Engineering, Computing and Financial Management, and Bachelor of Computer Science (Data Science) students are considered Computer Science students. Students enroled in the BMath (Data Science) plan are not considered Computer Science students. Due to course restrictions on upper-year courses, students pursuing a Computer Science Minor may need to enrol as Computer Science students for part of their undergraduate studies and should contact a CS advisor for more information.
First-year CS courses are available to all students with the exception of CS 100, which is not open to Faculty of Math students and most Engineering students, and CS 137 and 138, which are only available to Software Engineering students.
Upper-year CS courses are divided into two streams.Courses with middle digits 4 to 9, e.g., 350, are designed specifically for Computer Science students. Some courses are open to all Faculty of Math students, but most are restricted to Computer Science students only. BMath (Data Science) students are eligible to take all CS courses listed as required or elective for their plan, as detailed in individual course descriptions below.
Courses with middle digits 0 to 3, e.g., 230, are designed for a broader audience, including students pursuing the Computing Minor. These courses are not available to Computer Science students.
In exceptional circumstances, student who are not Computer Science students may be allowed to take restricted CS courses. For more information, students should contact a CS advisor. Engineering students are not usually allowed to take restricted CS courses that have an Engineering equivalent available. When space is limited for restricted CS courses, Computer Science students are given priority.
Computer Science relies on student course selection data to determine the demand for courses. Every effort is made to accommodate students who 